Prepare 4.0 release notes (#1418)
cucumber/cucumber-ruby: release-notes/4.0.0.md

# Cucumber-ruby 4.0.0 release notes

> This is the first stable Cucumber releasse of the 4.x serie. It's the first stable release since 2 years and there's pretty big changes since 3.1.2, let's have a look at the biggest changes introduced by this release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the first stable Cucumber release of the 4.x series. It's the first stable release since 2 years and there's pretty big changes since 3.1.2, let's have a look at the biggest changes introduced by this release.
```

Author: thanks for the typo fix :)

# Cucumber-ruby 4.0.0 release notes

> This is the first stable Cucumber release of the 4.x series. It's the first stable release for 2 years and there are pretty big changes since 3.1.2. Let's have a look at the biggest changes introduced by this release.

Reviewer 2: I think we can make this paragraph more helpful for users.

They want a one 1-2 sentence summary to get an idea of what they can expect to work and what they can expect to break if they upgrade. Omtting this summary might scare people off from upgrading, especially when we say there are "big changes".

Reviewer 2: Would it be fair to say "upgrading from 3.x should not require any changes, but there are some deprecations (see below). We also have some exciting new features."

 - the `Rule` keyword acts as a grouping of scenarios inside a feature
 - the `Scenario Outline` keyword is not needed anymore when using `Examples` with a `Scenario``
 - the `Scenario` keyword now has synonym: `Example`

If you are familiar with [example mapping](https://cucumber.io/docs/bdd/example-mapping/), you will see how easy it is to translate your cards from an example mapping session into a `feature` file.

### support of the cucumber-messages protocol

[`cucumber-messages`](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/tree/master/messages#cucumber-messages) is the new format that is used by Cucumber to represent the various information emitted during an execution.

This library satisfies multiple interests:
 - same output for all `cucumber` and related implementation (cucumber-ruby, cucumber-jvm, cucumber-jss, SpecFlow ...)
 - it relies on [`protobuf`](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/), so it is fairly easy to generate a consumer in any language supported by `protobuf`.

>   - we have published libraries to consume this format for [`ruby`](https://rubygems.org/gems/cucumber-messages), [`Java`](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.cucumber/messages), [`JavaScript](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@cucumber/messages) and [`C#`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Cucumber.Messages/)

Reviewer 2: Missing backtick for JavaScript - not sure why there are backticks in the first place.

 - it is easier to generate tools consuming this output

To generate the new messages, you can use the `message` reporter.

Example: `bundle exec cucumber --format message`

### sending results to a server

> You now have the option to send the results of the execution directly to a web server. You can achieve this by specifying an `http` adress to the `--out` parameter.

Reviewer 2: `http` or `https` URL

Example: `bundle exec cucumber --format messages --out "http://example.com/report-service"`

### HTML reporter

We've added a brand new HTML reporter in this release. Everything is embedded in a single file (no CSS or JS file), so you can easily share the generated page.

Example: `bundle exec cucumber --format html --out report.html`

## Deprecated

### JSON formatter

With the introduction of the `message` reporter, we have decided to deprecate the JSON reporter.

> We have released an executable tool ([`json-formatter`](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/tree/master/json-formatter#cucumber-json-formatter)) to produce old JSON from the new `message` format.

Reviewer 3: So is the old JSON formatter deprecated, or removed altogether in this release?

Author: Thanks @mattwynne, to make this clearer, does this sound good ?

```markdown
With the introduction of the `message` reporter, we have decided to deprecate the JSON reporter. It will be removed in the 5.0.0 release.
After the removal, you will still have the possibility to export to JSON using the [`json-formatter`](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/tree/master/json-formatter#cucumber-json-formatter) which takes cucumber-messages as input.
```

Reviewer 2: Can you replace `reporter` with `formatter` please?

Reviewer 3: @vincent-psarga that's clearer. Let's hope it's not another two years until 5.0!

Author: I hope so too :D

### `puts`

When using `puts` in your step definitions, the data you output are caught by `cucumber` and then processed by the formatter (for example, when using the `json` formatter, the data provided to `puts` will appear in the `output` field of the step).

> This solution is now deprecated in favor of the `log` method. In `cucumber-ruby 5`, calls to `puts` will not be caught by the formatter and the default Ruby behavior will be triggered.

Reviewer 3: Woop!

Reviewer 2: "In version 3.x, when using `puts` in your step definitions or hooks"
"is caught by"
